Companies have invested heavily in human capital and
technological architecture to become more data-driven.
This alone will not bring transformation to the business,
in order to truly become a data-driven enterprise,
a company must take steps towards building a data-driven culture.
In a 2020 article in the Harvard Business Review,
David Waller outlined 10 commandments
for helping a business's culture to become data-driven.
I'd like to highlight a handful of these commandments in the spirit of helping you
identify strategies for promoting a data-driven culture in your own organization.
The original article that contains
all ten commandments can be found at a link in the notes section of this lesson.
The first commandment I'll highlight is,
data-driven culture starts at the very top.
Companies with data-driven cultures have senior executives who
operate under the expectation that all actions be driven by data.
The second commandment I'll highlight is,
fix basic data access issues quickly.
One of the key factors that differentiates data-driven companies from
their peers is that employees in data-driven companies can access,
in fact, are required to access data from across the organization.
This is not that common in business today.
One of the most common challenges I've seen in
the many organizations for which I've built data science practices,
is that most employees can at most access data
only within the virtual walls of their department or function.
The third commandment I'll highlight is,
make proofs of concepts simple and robust,
not fancy and brittle.
We've discussed rapid prototyping early in the course.
In the same spirit,
proofs of concepts that address manageable goals and are straightforward to implement,
are favored over those that attempt to reach great heights or deliver on exotic goals,
but are technically complex.
A fourth commandment is,
don't unnecessarily limit your data scientists to data science.
Though data scientists tend to focus on problems in their area of the business,
the most effective data scientists grow into leadership positions,
having been exposed to issues and operations across the business.
This broader perspective helps foster business acumen and the ability to see
novel ways that data science might be used
to address systemic challenges in the business.
There are six more commandments included in the HBR article linked below.
I recommend that you study the article and identify
even more ways to promote a data-driven culture in your own organization.